Okay, so how are we feeling?
Hopefully by this point,
our plotting is starting to feel
a little bit second nature.
So again, there are lots of different
ways you could have drawn this dot plot.
But let's look at my reference solution.
Just one way of doing it.
This is basically just what's
right in the solution button.
So this is what I came up with,
yours might look different,
but the important part is we have the
timestamp feature or column on the x axis.
So that's why we see these
little dates coming across.
And again, that's just a way of
sequencing these different requests.
So we've got the timestamps
across the x axis, and
then we have the duration of
each request on the y axis.
Where higher is longer and
therefore probably worse, right?
So what we can see already is that
we have some kind of outliers up
here that took a really long time,
30 seconds, to come back.
But we also seem to have a lot of
points that came back pretty quickly.
And then there's a sort of gradual
trailing off in the middle there.
And then, if we add in a couple of
other channels, so for example,
we could use the color, the fill for
each of these dots to indicate the path.
We immediately see that a lot of
these dots are the same color.
And I've added some tooltips so that we
can see more metadata about each of these,
which you maybe you did or
maybe you want to play around with later.
And what we can see is that it's this
files search path that is accounting for
a huge amount of these requests.
So it looks like that is
a really popular path.
And, as we noticed from the color of
these really long responses here,
it's also maybe one that we want to
take a look at performance-wise.
Cuz we got some slow responses happening.
But there are also a few other paths,
like some of these user files seem
to also be taking a little while.
So again, if we're using
this to understand what some
of our performance steps might look like.
And maybe some of the endpoints that
we might want to try to spruce up
a little bit speedwise,
that is already some useful information.
And again,
just having kind of a title string.
Where here I'm just joining together a
bunch of little snippets of information on
different lines,
is a handy way to be able to dig in there.
So we've already got an arguably
interactive plot here.
But let's make it even more
interactive with some user controls,
to determine what data is
visualized in this plot.
So before we dig into those,
does anybody have any questions?
Again, keeping in mind that this is
just one way to create this dot plot.
There are lots of possibilities here,
as we've seen with all
these different channels.
Seems like everybody is doing pretty good.
So let us press ahead and
talk about interactivity.
So what we're gonna do in our project
here, now that we've got a baseline
plot to work with, is we're gonna
add some interactive input widgets.
Now, since we're working
in an observable notebook,
we can take advantage of some handy
dandy ready-to-go HTML widget.
That Observable exposes as
something called inputs.
So you can read through in the link's
documentation if you want to learn more
about which different types
of inputs are available.
There's also a handy little sidebar here.
If you click on this little tiny plot
icon, you'll see a bunch of options for
different inputs that you can click on and
insert into your notebooks.
If you're working within Observable.
But essentially these are just kinda
spruced up HTML widgets that give
us different types of controls.
So for example,
we've already seen the table input,
which I call by typing inputs.table.
And then passing in
an array of data objects,
which then gives me this kinda nice
little human readable, scrollable table.
Similar to like if I was scrolling through
a spreadsheet or something like that.
So that's one example we've seen already.
Now let's take a look at a couple others.
So for example,
there is an Inputs.checkbox widget,
which we can pass in
an array of options too.
So here I've got some
Roy G Biv kind of colors here.
And then we can pass in some configuration
properties that are optional, like for
example I can add a label to say, okay,
these are the colors that I like.
And then I can choose different
colors that I am a fan of.
And you'll notice here that, as opposed to
our previous cells where we could assign
a name to a value by essentially using
kind of a modified JavaScript syntax here.
Where we're not declaring a let or const
variable, but we're giving it a name and
then putting an equal sign.
And that's how we can name
cell values in Observable.
For interactive cells, like inputs,
there's a special operator called Vviewof.
Which when we put that in
front of the cell name.
Basically gives us
a reactive way to respond to
the user's changes to this
value by capturing it in
an object called whatever
we're naming that cell.
So in this case, favColors.
So I'm not gonna go too much into
the details of how Observable works or
what these viewof operators are.
There's a links to the documentation
if you want to use Observable more.
But for now, suffice it to say
that when I use this viewof
favColors equals inputs.whatever,
in this case checkbox.
favColors is going to become
the value currently selected
of those checkbox options.
So that means favColors in this case is
going to give me an array of the selected
colors.
So you'll notice that,
as I Interact with this input,
it is going to update that
favColors array correspondingly.
Now, because Observable's
environment is reactive.
What that means is that any cells that are
using that favColors object, that value,
are going to reactively update
anytime the favColors value changes.
So if you'll notice in this cell below or
these couple cells below,
I have some cells that use this value.
So in this case we're just mapping
over the favColors array and
capitalizing everything,
uppercasing everything.
And then the bottom when we have a string,
that's sort of expressing these
favColors as prose, as it were.
And if we take a look
at these two strings,
as I change the values we see
that they reactively update.
So this is a fun thing about Observable,
is that it comes with these inputs
out of the box and they're reactive.
So that means we can hook one of
these inputs, like checkboxes for
example, up to our chart.
And make the chart redraw and
change essentially what data is displayed,
based on the values that a user has
selected in, let's say, a checkbox input.
So that is exactly what
we're going to do next.